# S3

## REST API
You access objects in a bucket via the HTTP protocol in conjuction with a REST API (sometimes referred to as RESTful API).  
They often allow CRUD commands (Create, Read, Update, Delete)  
REST API means you have specific commands in the request: GET, PUT, POST, SELECT, DELETE

- **REST** representational state transfer architectural style - https://www.ibm.com/cloud/learn/rest-apis

## Connections
- **URL** Connect via public internet using REST API
- **S3 Gateway Endpoint** Enables you to connect private instances to S3.

## Replication
Bucket versioning must be enabled before you can replicate a bucket.  
- **Cross-Region Replication (CRR)** Replicates the bucket to another region.
- **Same-Region Replication (SRR)** Can replicate a bucket in the same region to another AWS account.

## Lifecycle Management
- **Transition Actions** Define when objects transition to another storage class
- **Expiration Actions** Define when objects expire (get deleted by S3)

## Encryption
Encryption at rest:
**Server-side Encryption with S3 managed keys (SSE-S3)** 
- S3 managed keys
- Unique object keys (each object is encrypted with a unique key)
- Master key aka Root key (the object keys are encrypted with a root key)
- it uses AES 256 encryption
   
**Server-side Encryption with AWS KMS managed keys (SSE-KMS)**
- KMS managed keys
- Customer master keys 
- CMK can be customer generated
- Additional security; you can add permission policies to a KMS key. SSE-KMS provides you with an Audit trail that shows when the key was used and by whom.
  
**Server-side Encryption with client provided keys (SSE-C)**
- Client managed keys
- Not stored on AWS
- Gives you more control over the keys
  
**Client-side Encryption**
- Client managed keys
- Not stored on AWS
- OR you can use a KMS CMK
  
- Objects that already existed in the bucket do not get encrypted if you enable the setting later on!  
- You can specify a bucket policy to deny any uploads that are not encrypted. 
- **Presigned URL** Allow access to an object for a limited amount of time. You can generate a presigned URL.

## S3 Multipart Upload
- Upload objects in parts independently, in parallel or in any order
- Performed using the S3 Multipart Upload API
- Recommended for objects that are >= 100 MB
- Can be used for objects from 5 MB up to 5 TB
- Must be used for objects larger than 5 GB

## S3 Transfer Acceleration
Uses CloudFront edge locations to improve performance of transfers from client to S3 bucket. You use the internet to reach the Edge Location, but from that point onward, the data traverses on the AWS Backbone network. You are only charged if there is a performance improvement.  
  
## S3 Select / Glacier Select
You can use an expression (SQL expression) to retrieve an individual file from a zip archive in a bucket. 
`Expression="SELECT * FROM s3object s where ..."`
Also works with Glacier, then it can access an archive.  
`"Expression": "SELECT * FROM archive"`  

## Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)
- Allows request from an origin to another origin
- Origin is defined by DNS name, protocol and port
  
When you enable CORS, it allows other origins (i.e. www.example.com) to make requests (such as GET or PUT)
  
You define these settings through rules that are added as JSON files. You can add these permission to a rule:
- Access-Control-Allow-Origin
- Access-Control-Allow-Methods 
- Access-Control-Allow-Headers

- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/cors.html

# Todo
- check out CORS?
- Try out S3 select?